[IMP] productivity: outlook calendar rewrite (#8780)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/calendar/outlook.rst

Outlook Calendar synchronization
================================

Synchronizing a user's Outlook Calendar with Odoo is useful for keeping track of tasks and
appointments across all related applications.

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`/applications/general/users/azure`
   - :doc:`/applications/general/email_communication/azure_oauth`

Setup in Microsoft Azure
========================

> To sync the Outlook Calendar with Odoo's Calendar, a Microsoft Azure account is needed. Creating an

Reviewer: This suggestion (and other suggestions like it below) are following the "italicize software/applications" and "keep the brand unitalicized" rule (e.g. Odoo *Calendar*)

-- And, technically, since Outlook is a Microsoft software application, that's why it's *Outlook Calendar* and not Outlook *Calendar*

account is free for users who have never tried or paid for Azure. For more information, `click here
<https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F>`_.

Refer to `Microsoft's documentation <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/

> develop/quickstart-create-new-tenant>`_ on how to set up an Microsoft Entra ID (formally called

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
develop/quickstart-create-new-tenant>`_ on how to set up a Microsoft Entra ID (formally called
```

*Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD)*). This is a API console to manage and register
Microsoft applications.

> Existing Microsoft Entra ID users should log in at the `Microsoft Azure developer portal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Existing Microsoft *Entra ID* users should log in at the `Microsoft *Azure* developer portal
```

> <https://portal.azure.com/#home>`_. Next, select :guilabel:`View` under the section labeled *Manage
> Microsoft Entra ID*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<https://portal.azure.com/#home>`_. Next, select :guilabel:`View` under the section labeled :guilabel:`Manage
Microsoft Entra ID`.
```
adding a GUI because it's the name of a section that appears on the UI

Register application
--------------------

> Following logging in with the Microsoft Entra ID, `Register an Application
> <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After logging in with the Microsoft *Entra ID*, `register an application
<https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app>`_.
```

> o create an application click :guilabel:`+ Add` in the top menu. A drop-down menu will appear;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create an application, click :guilabel:`+ Add` in the top menu. From the resulting drop-down menu,
```

select :guilabel:`App Registration`.

.. image:: outlook/app-register.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Microsoft Azure management page with + Add and App Registration menu highlighted.

Enter a unique :guilabel:`Name` for the connected application.

> Choosing the appropriate :guilabel:`Supported account type` is essential or the connected
> application will not work. Users who wish to connect their Outlook calendar to Odoo should select
> the :guilabel:`Accounts in any organizational directory (Any Microsoft Entra ID directory -
> Multitenant) and personal Microsoft accounts (e.g. Skype, Xbox)` option for :guilabel:`Supported
> account types`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choosing the appropriate :guilabel:`Supported account type` is essential, or else the connected
application will not work. Users who wish to connect their *Outlook Calendar* to Odoo should select
the :guilabel:`Accounts in any organizational directory (Any Microsoft Entra ID directory -
Multitenant) and personal Microsoft accounts (e.g. Skype, Xbox)` option for :guilabel:`Supported
account types`.
```

> When configuring the :guilabel:`Redirect URI`, choose :guilabel:`Web` option from the first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When configuring the :guilabel:`Redirect URI`, choose the :guilabel:`Web` option from the first
```

`/microsoft_account/authentication`.

.. example::

>    Enter `https://yourdbname.odoo.com/microsoft_account/authentication` for the

Reviewer 2: early line break (less than 100 char)

   Enter `https://yourdbname.odoo.com/microsoft_account/authentication` for the :guilabel:`Redirect
   URI`. Replace `yourdbname.odoo.com` with the :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)`.

.. tip::

>    Ensure that the database's :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)` (domain) used in the URI is the
>    exact same domain as the one configured on the `web.base.url` system parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Ensure the database's :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)` (domain) used in the URI is the
   exact same domain as the one configured on the `web.base.url` system parameter.
```

   Access the `web.base.url` by activating :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>`, and navigating to
   :menuselection:`Settings app --> Technical header menu --> Parameters section --> System

>    Parameters`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Parameters`. Then, select it from the :guilabel:`Key` list on the :guilabel:`System Parameters` page.
```

For more information on the restrictions and limitations of URIs, `check this page <https://docs.
microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/reply-url>`_.

> Finally, click :guilabel:`Register` to complete the application registration. The

Reviewer: Can you please specify *where* this is taking place? I'm assuming back on the app registration page, and not in Odoo? Because, up to this point, you've just guided the reader to the web.base.url page in the System Parameters of Odoo, and they be curious if this 'Register' button is *there*...So, if you could add a quick elaboration here, that would be super helpful. Thanks!

> :guilabel:`Application (client) ID` is produced. Copy this value as it is needed later, in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Application (client) ID` is produced. Copy this value, as it is needed later, in the
```

:ref:`outlook_calendar/odoo_setup`.

.. image:: outlook/app-client-id.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Application client ID highlighted in the essentials section of the newly created
         application.

Create client secret
--------------------

> The second credential needed to complete the synchronization of the Microsoft Outlook Calendar is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second credential needed to complete the synchronization of the Microsoft *Outlook Calendar* is
```

> the *Client Secret*. The user *must* add a client secret, this allows Odoo to authenticate itself,
> requiring no interaction from the user's side. :guilabel:`Certificates` are optional.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the *Client Secret*. The user **must** add a client secret, as this allows Odoo to authenticate itself,
requiring no interaction from the user's side. :guilabel:`Certificates` are optional.
```

> itself, requiring no interaction from the user's side. :guilabel:`Certificates` are optional.

Reviewer: At this point in your instructions, is the word 'Certificates' appearing on the UI, if the reader were to follow this doc move-by-move? If so, then absolutely keep the GUI for 'Certificates' -- it not, I'd suggest applying some italics here, instead.

To add a client secret, click :guilabel:`Certificates & secrets` in the left menu. Then click
:guilabel:`+ New client secret` to create the client secret.

.. image:: outlook/client-secret.png
   :align: center
   :alt: New client secret page with certificates and secrets menu and new client secret option
         highlighted.

> Next, type a :guilabel:`Description`

Reviewer 2: early line break (less than 100 char)

> Next, type a :guilabel:`Description` and select when the client secret :guilabel:`Expires`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, type a :guilabel:`Description`, and select when the client secret :guilabel:`Expires`.
```

> and select when the client secret :guilabel:`Expires`. Options that are available include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and select when the client secret :guilabel:`Expires`. Available options include:
```

:guilabel:`545 days (18 months)`, :guilabel:`730 days (24 months)` or :guilabel:`Custom`. The
:guilabel:`Custom` option allows the administrator to set a :guilabel:`Start` and :guilabel:`End`
date.

Finally, click :guilabel:`Add` to :guilabel:`Add a client secret`.

.. tip::
   Since resetting the synchronization can be tricky, Odoo recommends setting the maximum allowed
   expiration date for the client secret (24 months or custom), so there is no need to
   re-synchronize soon.

Copy the :guilabel:`Value` for use in the next section.

.. warning::
   Client secret values cannot be viewed, except immediately after creation. Be sure to save the

>    secret when created, before leaving the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   secret when created *before* leaving the page.
```

 .. _outlook_calendar/odoo_setup:

Configuration in Odoo
=====================

> In the Odoo database, go to :menuselection:`Settings --> General Settings --> Integrations` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Odoo database, go to :menuselection:`Settings app -->Integrations section`, and
```

> activate the :guilabel:`Outlook Calendar` setting. :guilabel:`Save` the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tick the checkbox beside the :guilabel:`Outlook Calendar` setting. Remember to click :guilabel:`Save` to implement the changes.
```

.. image:: outlook/outlook-calendar-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The "Outlook Calendar" setting activated in Odoo.

> From the Microsoft Azure portal, under the :guilabel:`Overview` section of the application, copy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the Microsoft *Azure* portal, under the :guilabel:`Overview` section of the application, copy
```

the :guilabel:`Application (Client) ID`, if it has not already been copied, and paste it into the
:guilabel:`Client ID` field in Odoo.

.. image:: outlook/client-id.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The "Client ID" in the Microsoft Azure portal.

> Copy the previously acquired :guilabel:`Value` (Client Secret Value) and paste it into the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the previously-acquired :guilabel:`Value` (Client Secret Value), and paste it into the
```

For more information on the restrictions and limitations of URIs, `check this page <https://docs.
microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/reply-url>`_.

Finally, on the application registration page, click :guilabel:`Register` button to complete the
application registration. The :guilabel:`Application (client) ID` is produced. Copy this value, as
it is needed later, in the :ref:`outlook_calendar/odoo_setup`.

.. image:: outlook/app-client-id.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Application client ID highlighted in the essentials section of the newly created
         application.

Create client secret
--------------------

The second credential needed to complete the synchronization of the Microsoft *Outlook Calendar* is
the *Client Secret*. The user **must** add a client secret, as this allows Odoo to authenticate
itself, requiring no interaction from the user's side. *Certificates* are optional.

> To add a client secret, click :guilabel:`Certificates & secrets` in the left menu. Then click

Reviewer 3: When directing the user to select a menu item, it is preferred to use the menuselection tag :)
```suggestion
To add a client secret, click :menuselection:`Certificates & secrets` in the left menu. Then click
```

:guilabel:`+ New client secret` to create the client secret.

.. image:: outlook/client-secret.png
   :align: center
   :alt: New client secret page with certificates and secrets menu and new client secret option
         highlighted.

Next, type a :guilabel:`Description`, and select when the client secret :guilabel:`Expires`.
Available options include: :guilabel:`90 days (3 months)`, :guilabel:`365 days (12 months)`,
:guilabel:`545 days (18 months)`, :guilabel:`730 days (24 months)` or :guilabel:`Custom`. The
:guilabel:`Custom` option allows the administrator to set a :guilabel:`Start` and :guilabel:`End`
date.

Finally, click :guilabel:`Add` to :guilabel:`Add a client secret`.

.. tip::
   Since resetting the synchronization can be tricky, Odoo recommends setting the maximum allowed
   expiration date for the client secret (24 months or custom), so there is no need to
   re-synchronize soon.

Copy the :guilabel:`Value` for use in the next section.

.. warning::
   Client secret values cannot be viewed, except immediately after creation. Be sure to save the
   secret when created *before* leaving the page.

>  .. _outlook_calendar/odoo_setup:

Reviewer 3: Remove indenting space 
```suggestion
.. _outlook_calendar/odoo_setup:
```

Configuration in Odoo
=====================

> In the Odoo database, go to :menuselection:`Settings app -->Integrations section`, and
> tick the checkbox beside the :guilabel:`Outlook Calendar` setting. Remember to click
> :guilabel:`Save` to implement the changes.

Reviewer 3: Add a space in menuselection, and early breaks
```suggestion
In the Odoo database, go to :menuselection:`Settings app --> Integrations section`, and tick the
checkbox beside the :guilabel:`Outlook Calendar` setting. Remember to click :guilabel:`Save` to
implement the changes.
```

Sync Odoo Calendar and Outlook
------------------------------

> In the Odoo database, go to the Calendar module and click the Outlook sync button on the right side

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Odoo database, open to the *Calendar* module, and click the :guilabel:`Outlook` sync button on the right-side
```

> of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the page, beneath the monthly calendar.
```

.. image:: outlook/outlook-sync-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The "Outlook" sync button in Odoo Calendar.

The synchronization is a two-way process, meaning that events are reconciled in both accounts

> (Outlook and Odoo). The page will redirect to a Microsoft login page, and the user is asked to log

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(*Outlook* and Odoo). The page redirects to a Microsoft login page, and the user is asked to log
```

in to their account, if they are not already. Finally, grant the required permissions by clicking

> :guilabel:`Accept`.15.0-productivity-outlook-calendar-updates-tiku

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Accept`.
```

.. image:: outlook/accept-terms.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Authentication process on Microsoft Outlook OAuth page.

.. note::
   All users that want to use the synchronization simply need to :ref:`sync their calendar with

>    Outlook <outlook/sync>`. The configuration of Microsoft's Azure account is only done once, as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   *Outlook* <outlook/sync>`. The configuration of Microsoft's *Azure* account is only done once, as
```

Author: I left out italics inside the reference, Sam said to shy away from stacking formating.

>    Microsoft Entra ID tenants' Client IDs and Client Secrets are unique, and help the user to manage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Microsoft *Entra ID* tenants' client IDs and client secrets are unique, and help the user manage
```

>    Outlook <outlook/sync>`. The configuration of Microsoft's Azure account is only done once,

Reviewer 2: early line break (less than 100 char)

Sync Odoo Calendar and Outlook
------------------------------

In the Odoo database, open to the *Calendar* module, and click the :guilabel:`Outlook` sync button
on the right-side of the page, beneath the monthly calendar.

.. image:: outlook/outlook-sync-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The "Outlook" sync button in Odoo Calendar.

The synchronization is a two-way process, meaning that events are reconciled in both accounts
(*Outlook* and Odoo). The page redirects to a Microsoft login page, and the user is asked to log in
to their account, if they are not already. Finally, grant the required permissions by clicking
:guilabel:`Accept`.

.. image:: outlook/accept-terms.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Authentication process on Microsoft Outlook OAuth page.

.. note::
   All users that want to use the synchronization simply need to :ref:`sync their calendar with
   Outlook <outlook/sync>`. The configuration of Microsoft's *Azure* account is only done once, as
   Microsoft *Entra ID* tenants' client IDs and client secrets are unique, and help the user manage
   a specific instance of Microsoft cloud services for internal and external users.

.. seealso::

>    - :doc:`/applications/general/integrations/mail_plugins/outlook`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - :doc:`../../general/integrations/mail_plugins/outlook`
```
